# Introduction

This is a [Helm](https://helm.sh/) chart for installing Mastodon into a
Kubernetes cluster.  The basic usage is:

1. edit `values.yaml` or create a separate yaml file for custom values
1. `helm dep install`
1. `helm install --namespace mastodon --create-namespace my-mastodon ./ -f path/to/additional/values.yaml`

This chart is tested with k8s 1.21+ and helm 3.8.0+.

# NOTICE: Future Deprecation

We have plans in the very near future to deprecate this chart in favor of a [new git repo](https://github.com/mastodon/helm-charts), which has proper helm repository support (e.g. `helm repo add`), and will contain multiple charts, both for mastodon and for supplementary components that we make use of.

We still encourage suggestions and PRs to help make this chart better, and this repository will remain available after the new charts are ready to give users time to migrate. However, we will not be approving large PRs, or PRs that change fundamental chart functions, as those changes should be directed to the new charts.

Please see the pinned [GitHub issue](https://github.com/mastodon/chart/issues/129) for more info & discussion.

# Installation

This chart is [released as an OCI image](https://helm.sh/docs/topics/registries/) to `ghcr.io/mastodon/charts/mastodon`. You can install it without the need to add any repository to your helm installation using:

```shell
helm install mastodon oci://ghcr.io/mastodon/charts/mastodon --values your-values-file.yaml
```

You can also add it as a dependency to another chart in your Chart.yaml:

```yaml
dependencies:
  - name: mastodon
    version: 4.0.0
    repository: oci://ghcr.io/mastodon/charts
```

# Configuration

The variables that _must_ be configured are:

- password and keys in the `mastodon.secrets`, `postgresql`, and `redis` groups; if
  left blank, some of those values will be autogenerated, but will not persist
  across upgrades.

- SMTP settings for your mailer in the `mastodon.smtp` group.

If your PersistentVolumeClaim is `ReadWriteOnce` and you're unable to use a S3-compatible service or
run a self-hosted compatible service like [Minio](https://min.io/docs/minio/kubernetes/upstream/index.html)
then you need to set the pod affinity so the web and sidekiq pods are scheduled to the same node.

Example configuration:
```yaml
podAffinity:
  requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
    - labelSelector:
        matchExpressions:
          - key: app.kubernetes.io/part-of
            operator: In
            values:
              - rails
      topologyKey: kubernetes.io/hostname
```

# Administration

You can run [admin CLI](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/tootctl/) commands in the web deployment.

```bash
kubectl -n mastodon exec -it deployment/mastodon-web -- bash
tootctl accounts modify admin --reset-password
```

or
```bash
kubectl -n mastodon exec -it deployment/mastodon-web -- tootctl accounts modify admin --reset-password
```

# Missing features

Currently this chart does _not_ support:

- Hidden services
- Swift

# Upgrading

Because database migrations are managed as a Job separate from the Rails and
Sidekiq deployments, it’s possible they will occur in the wrong order.  After
upgrading Mastodon versions, it may sometimes be necessary to manually delete
the Rails and Sidekiq pods so that they are recreated against the latest
migration.
